This document describes how to contribute to GTNA.

Overview
========

  1. Fork on GitHub
  2. Develop on a topic branch
    a) Deal with upstream changes
  3. Send a Pull Request

GTNA is hosted on Github, a social code hosting service that hosts Git
repositories.

You'll need a GitHub account to contribute to GTNA.


1) Fork on GitHub
-----------------

In the GitHub UI there's a "Fork" button which will copy the GTNA repository to
your account.  After forking clone your fork to your dev machine.

By default the remote you clone from is called orign.  Let's rename it to
something with more context:

    git remote rename origin github

Because we'll deal with upstream changes we'll add the upstream repository to
our clone:

    git remote add upstream https://github.com/BenjaminSchiller/GTNA.git


2) Develop on a topic branch
----------------------------

It's good practice to do development on a topic branch.  This is a branch that
contains all commits for one feature.  To create a branch run:

    git checkout -b new-feature

During development you should push your changes to your GitHub fork so you have
an off site backup and others can follow your development.

    git push github new-feature


### a) Deal with upstream changes

If one of your features takes several days to complete development on the
upstream master might continue.  It's a good habit to merge in changes from
upstream frequently.  It's easier to handle merge conflicts in little steps then
going through merge hell for 20 commits in one run.

First we'll get the changes from upstream:

    git fetch upstream

Now we'll rebase our topic commits onto the new upstream master -- or the branch
you branched off.

    git rebase upstream/master

This changes your history so a normal `git push github new-feature` will fail.
We'll need to force it.

    git push -f github new-feature


3. Send a Pull Request
----------------------

After finishing your work you can send a pull request in the GitHub UI.


Commit Messages
===============

Please read http://tbaggery.com/2008/04/19/a-note-about-git-commit-messages.html
about commit messages.

Example Commit Message
----------------------

> Capitalized, short (50 chars or less) summary
> 
> More detailed explanatory text, if necessary.  Wrap it to about 72
> characters or so.  In some contexts, the first line is treated as the
> subject of an email and the rest of the text as the body.  The blank
> line separating the summary from the body is critical (unless you omit
> the body entirely); tools like rebase can get confused if you run the
> two together.
> 
> Write your commit message in the present tense: "Fix bug" and not "Fixed
> bug."  This convention matches up with commit messages generated by
> commands like git merge and git revert.
> 
> Further paragraphs come after blank lines.
> 
> - Bullet points are okay, too
> 
> - Typically a hyphen or asterisk is used for the bullet, preceded by a
>   single space, with blank lines in between, but conventions vary here
> 
> - Use a hanging indent
